AI is NEAR: The Future of AI on the Open Web at NEARCON ‘23
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 25, 2023
If you’re as excited as we are about the future of AI and blockchain, then get ready because NEARCON ’23 is just around the corner. If you haven’t registered yet, consider this your invitation to do so now on the official NEARCON ’23 site.

This year’s edition has a special focus on the intersection of AI and Web3. NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, a pioneer in the AI world, is leading the charge. Let’s  explore the amazing speakers sharing their perspectives on this game-changing new field in must-see NEARCON sessions.

Keynote by Cosmose AI’s Miron Mironiuk
Miron Mironiuk, the mind behind Cosmose AI, will enlighten NEARCON attendees on how AI is shaping the future of consumer behavior analysis with its unique “Shoppertainment” app that seamlessly blends personalization, loyalty, and blockchain-based rewards. KAIKAI has consistently ranked in the top 3 dApps in Web3 since its launch.

AI on NEAR: The Future of Work and Governance by Illia Polosukhin
Illia Polosukhin, another NEAR co-founder and head of Pagoda, will bring his deep roots in AI to this discussion of the future of AI strategy on NEAR. He’ll explore how NEAR is integrating AI to revolutionize work and evolve governance on the blockchain with AI. Topics will include why AI needs blockchain and the emergence of new business models as both AI and blockchain mature.

Illia Polosukhin in Conversation With TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher
In this candid discussion, Illia will join TechCrunch’s Mike Butcher to discuss the evolving role of AI in the open web and what we can expect in the coming years. As the case for open source AI becomes clearer and as regulators across the world introduce new policies designed to mitigate risk, how can Web3 help this revolutionary tech evolve in a more positive direction? Join this fireside chat to learn more. 

AI + Blockchain = Future of Work
This dynamic panel discussion will delve into the transformative potential of integrating AI and blockchain technologies in modern work environments. If you’re curious what the future of work will look like with AI on the open web, you’ll find those thoughts here. 

AI+Web3 Keynote from Niraj Pant
Niraj Pant, previously an investor at Polychain and now building a startup at the intersection of AI and Web3, will provide key insights into how AI can be leveraged for decentralized applications and services.

AI Keynote by Alexander Skidanov
When Alexander Skidanov and Illia Polosukhin originally founded NEAR, it was as an AI company called NEAR.ai. After transforming NEAR into a blockchain network, and working on its well-known Nightshade sharding technique, Alex turned his attention back to AI and founded an AI startup building smarter large language models, or LLMs, in a more decentralized way. 

To get more details on these sessions, and to check out the full speakers list and agenda, head on over to nearcon.org.

Wrap-Up and Next Steps
NEARCON ’23 is set to blow last year’s away, with some of the brightest thought leaders in AI and the open web. And with NEAR’s co-founder Illia Polosukhin being an OG in the AI space, you can bet that the AI track at NEARCON will be awesome. So whether you’re a developer, an entrepreneur, or just a curious mind, NEARCON ‘23 has something for you. 

And let’s not forget, if you’re a student in Spain or Portugal, or a Ukrainian citizen living in Portugal, you’re eligible for free tickets. Hackers can also get in for free by participating in our hackathon event.
NEAR is already delivering on its promise of a blockchain that is simple, scalable, and secure. Now’s your chance to be part of bringing AI into the open web. Register for NEARCON ’23 today and witness firsthand how NEAR is shaping the future of AI and decentralization.