An Open Invitation to the Terra Community
COMMUNITY
May 18, 2022
The NEAR Foundation strives to create a stable environment for developers, founders and community members to realize their vision of an Open Web world.

During this turbulent period, many projects building on the Terra network are now facing an uncertain future.  The NEAR Foundation is extending an open invitation to anyone currently building on Terra to join the NEAR community, and make this vibrant ecosystem their new home.

As part of this invitation, the Foundation has put together a sizable relief fund for projects from the Terra ecosystem to make the switch. 

Why choose NEAR? 
The NEAR blockchain has simplicity at its heart. NEAR uses common coding languages like WebAssembly (WASM) in addition to Rust to build its smart contracts. Terra also uses Rust to write smart contracts, making the switch simple. 

NEAR was built by developers for developers. As a result, there are class-leading resources for developers to begin building on NEAR Protocol. These include NEAR.University’s training and certification programs—more than 5,000 developers have been trained—and $45M+ in project grants within the NEAR ecosystem. The NEAR community also has extensive documentation on building and deploying on the network, and much more.

Below is a range of places to get started: 

Developer Tools – NEAR CLIs, SDKs, APIs and more.
Code Examples – Explore how Rust and AssemblyScript are being deployed.  
Developer Bounties – Bug fixes, developer grants and other incentives. 
Grants Program – More than 800 projects funded and over $45 million awarded.
Office Hours – Talk to expert developers about your project. 
Education – Learn, watch and build.  
Ecosystem – Explore the more than 500 projects already being built in the NEAR ecosystem. 
If you’re interested in finding out more about how the NEAR Foundation team can help you make the switch, please email [email protected] with the subject line, “Terra Migration”, and one of the teams will respond within 24 hours. 