An Open Invitation to the Harmony Community
COMMUNITY
July 29, 2022
The NEAR Foundation works tirelessly to create a stable ecosystem. A place for developers, founders, and community members to collectively build an Open Web world.

During this tumultuous period for Web3 and the broader global economy, many projects that launched or are actively building on the Harmony network are now facing uncertainty. Which is why NEAR Foundation is extending an open invitation to anyone currently building on Harmony to join the NEAR community, and make this vibrant ecosystem their new home.

As part of this invitation, NEAR Foundation and Proximity Labs have put together  sizable relief funds for projects from the Harmony ecosystem. If you’re looking to bring your project over to NEAR, here’s what you need to know.

Why choose NEAR? 
The NEAR blockchain is built with simplicity in mind. NEAR uses common coding languages like WebAssembly (WASM) and Rust to build its smart contracts. NEAR is also launching a Javascript SDK, making the switch simple for those who built with Harmony’s own Javascript implementation, or were considering it. Aurora, which is built on NEAR, is 100% EVM-compatible, and NEAR’s super fast transactions run on an infinitely scalable yet carbon neutral protocol. By switching to NEAR, your project would join over 700 apps building on NEAR. 

NEAR was built by developers for developers. NEAR Foundation and other ecosystem platforms, like Aurora and Pagoda, have vast offerings of class-leading resources for developers to begin building on NEAR. These include NEAR.University’s training and certification programs—to date, over 5,000 developers trained—and $45M+ in project grants within the NEAR ecosystem. 

The NEAR community also offers extensive documentation on building and deploying on the network, and much more.

NEAR’s developer resources
Interested in developing on NEAR? Great! A range of resources are at your disposal: 

Developer Tools – NEAR CLIs, SDKs, APIs and more.
Code Examples – Explore how to deploy Rust and AssemblyScript.  
Developer Bounties – Bug fixes, developer grants and other incentives. 
Grants Program – More than 800 projects funded and over $45 million awarded.
Office Hours – Talk to expert developers about your project. 
Education – Learn, watch and build.  
Ecosystem – Explore the more than 700 projects already being building in the NEAR ecosystem. 
Interested in learning more about how the NEAR Foundation team can help you make the switch? Please email [email protected] with the subject line, “Harmony Migration”, and one of the teams will respond within 24 hours. 