Aurora Partners With ConsenSys, Bringing MetaMask, Infura and More Ethereum Tools to NEAR
COMMUNITY
December 2, 2021
Aurora, the Ethereum scaling solution that allows projects built on Ethereum to utilize the cutting-edge technology of the NEAR Protocol, is partnering with ConsenSys, the enterprise blockchain company to provide access to its suite of developer tools. 

The partnership aims to empower both the NEAR and Ethereum ecosystems by improving developer facilities – through the availability of the product suite – with the goal of increasing cross-chain interoperability. 

The product suite features projects including MetaMask, Infura, ConsenSys Quorum, Truffle, Codefi, and Diligence. MetaMask is the primary way a global user base of over 21 million monthly active users interact with applications on Web3. Over 350,000 developers use Infura to access Ethereum, IPFS and Layer 2 networks. In addition, 4.7 million developers create and deploy smart contracts using Truffle and ConsenSys Diligence has secured more than $25 billion in smart contracts with its hands-on dapp audits and testing tools. 

“We are thrilled to join forces with ConsenSys on our shared mission of empowering the Ethereum ecosystem and extending its economy,” said Alex Shevchenko, the CEO of Aurora Labs.

The partnership means ConsenSys will now have official participation in the ongoing development of the AuroraDAO. 

“We are excited to be partnering with the talented Aurora and NEAR protocol teams. Developer interest in EVM-compatible scaling solutions continues to grow at the same pace as the rapid expansion of the Web3 ecosystem, says E.G. Galano, Co-Founder and Head of Engineering at Infura.

“We believe developers will benefit from the addition of Aurora to the Infura product suite by enabling them to utilize the NEAR network with the EVM tooling they are already familiar with.”

Infura is directly involved in the AuroraDAO, which hands over key decision making to its community as a part of its vision to create a scaling solution that is as decentralized as possible.

About Aurora
Aurora is an EVM built on the NEAR Protocol, delivering a turn-key solution for developers to operate their apps on an Ethereum-compatible, high-throughput, scalable and future-safe platform, with low transaction costs for their users.