Customer acquisition platform helps crypto companies grow
COMMUNITY
April 17, 2020
Depending on who you ask, the drop-off rate of blockchain applications is somewhere between 95% and 97%. This means that no more than five users actually succeed with onboarding for every 100 that try. In addition, web2 users today barely see any value in blockchain applications, which they often describe as “toy applications.” 

Currently, the market of blockchain applications is extremely tiny, with somewhere between 10,000 and 12,000 developers in the mix. As a result, there are only a couple hundred projects, very few of which have any traction. 

Talented entrepreneurs and developers expect robust developer tooling, seamless onboarding for their users, and numerous opportunities to monetize their applications and businesses over time. Such an infrastructure is almost non-existent on a protocol-level today. As such, there is an opportunity for developers to build applications that solve these challenges. 

What if you could encode digital assets into URLs and QR codes? Not only this, what if you could send this URL to your friend who doesn’t even have a digital wallet?

Introducing Linkdrop
Linkdrop helps crypto-native organizations (e.g., protocols, decentralized applications, and wallets) manage their marketing campaigns by providing tools that help them target their potential customers. URLs and QR codes allow them to create a seamless experience for end-users, including the first-time crypto users. With this approach, users don’t have to deal with complex wallet creation processes, and crypto-native organizations enjoy significantly improved conversion rates during the onboarding stage. 

In addition, Linkdrop creates opportunities for companies to tap into their users’ networks by allowing them to invite their friends through referral links. 

Not only can you address the crypto-acquiring process with Linkdrop, you can also enable wallet creation and sign in with Google via Linkdrop’s wallet widget. 

With Linkdrop, companies can manage their link campaigns, distribute them, and run analytics in one place. This allows you to measure the impact of your Linkdrop campaigns and use meaningful user analytics to optimize your next one. 


Why Blockchain:

Linkdrop started with the blockchain market as an entry point in other markets. From Linkdrop’s perspective, gaming and internet companies integrating blockchain-based marketing will be the first outside of crypto to adopt Linkdrop solutions. Once blockchain becomes the dominant technology for transferring value, traditional companies will start acquiring users with blockchain-based marketing campaigns.

Further Reading
Linkdrop’s blog

Relevant Industries
Wallets (e.g., Gnosis Safe, Coinbase Wallet, and Trust Wallet are customers), blockchain applications (e.g., Decentraland, Snark.art, and Pool Together), protocols (e.g., Binance, Flow, and NEAR).