Fireblocks Provides Custody Facility for Institutional Investors on NEAR
COMMUNITY
July 26, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership with Fireblocks, a leading provider of custody and settlement solutions for digital assets. Fireblocks is trusted by more than 1,300 banks, hedge funds, and financial institutions, and to date has ensured the safe transfer of more than $3 trillion. 

The Fireblocks integration with NEAR will allow institutional users to now access the NEAR Protocol’s fast and low-cost sharded proof-of-stake blockchain safely and securely. 

This means clients BNY Mellon, Credit Suisse, and other Tier 1 institutions can utilize Fireblocks’ class-leading custody solutions to access the NEAR ecosystem like never before.

“The institutional appetite for accessing DeFi across major blockchain ecosystems is only going to grow,” said Michael Shaulov, CEO of Fireblocks. “The newly launched integration with NEAR on Fireblocks will enable us to continue expanding the network of blockchains, DeFi and Web3 apps that institutional customers can  participate in. We look forward to continuing leading the way as the most secure platform for building crypto products and accessing global crypto capital markets.”     

Fireblocks on the NEAR ecosystem
Over the last few months, NEAR Foundation has identified that a healthy ecosystem should be made up of different communities. NEAR Foundation’s partnership with Fireblocks is a major step in helping institutional community members take part in the NEAR ecosystem. 

Fireblocks’ close relationships with banks, hedge funds, VC firms, and other financial institutions will allow these users to access a broad range of products being built on NEAR. 

Soon, Fireblock’s 1,000+ enterprise partners will be able to access Aurora, Ref.Finance, Octopus Network, and other decentralized apps being built on the platform. 

“A core mission for NEAR is building an ecosystem of diverse communities,” says NEAR Foundation CEO Marieke Flament. “With the Fireblocks partnership, NEAR can now welcome to the NEAR ecosystem the many financial institutions that have turned to Fireblocks as their trusted provider for digital assets custody and settlement solutions.”

About Fireblocks
Fireblocks is a leading enterprise-grade platform delivering a secure infrastructure for moving, storing, and issuing digital assets. Fireblocks enables banks, fintechs, exchanges, liquidity providers, OTCs, and hedge funds to securely manage digital assets across a wide range of products and services. The technology consists of the Fireblocks Network and MPC-based Wallet Infrastructure. Fireblocks serves over 1,000 financial institutions and has secured over $2 trillion in digital assets. Fireblocks has a unique insurance policy that covers assets in storage & transit and offers 24/7 global support.