Get Ready to SWEAT: Learn and Earn with the Most Active NEAR dApp
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 25, 2023
The NEAR Foundation is thrilled to announce a new campaign with Sweat Economy that will educate individuals about the basics of Web3 – while also promoting healthier lifestyles. Users can now take part* in the latest Learn & Earn lesson in the Sweat Wallet app to earn USDT token simply by learning more about stablecoins.

This Learn & Earn feature teaches users about the basics of Web3 and crypto through interactive content and quizzes. Launching the first Learn & Earn lesson is an essential step in the collaboration between Sweat Economy and NEAR Foundation, leveraging Sweat Wallet’s 6M+ active user base to introduce more users into the NEAR ecosystem with incentives and seamless user experience.

How Users can Learn & Earn with Sweat Wallet
One of the most popular health & fitness applications, Sweatcoin has over 130 million users globally. Subsequently, the company launched Sweat Wallet last year, which runs entirely on the NEAR network and garnered 6M+ active users in less than one year’s time, since September 2022. Additionally, Sweat Wallet has been the one of the top dApps on DappRadar in terms of unique active wallets. As a result of this initial partnership, more than 20 million Near wallets were created.

Learn & Earn is the latest endeavor to take the Movement Economy to the next level. In the first lesson of our partnership, users will be rewarded with USDT by completing the What are Stablecoins? lesson and an interactive quiz. In total, 100,000 USDT will be given out as rewards in this initiative.
The community’s feedback on potential Learn & Earn topics will also be avidly sought out on Sweat Economy’s Twitter. This will provide a knowledge-compounding effect about Web3 and crypto within the SWEAT community and fitness enthusiasts in general. 

The Sweat Wallet app is available in most countries now and it is launching in the United States on 12 September 2023. 

“With the majority of our community being new to blockchain and crypto, we are excited to be enabling users to walk into crypto literally, and also giving them the opportunity to acquire invaluable knowledge of how web3 works and get rewarded for it,” said said Oleg Fomenko, co-founder of Sweat Economy. “This partnership will give 100,000 people the experience of holding Tether on Near and engaging with many more dApps active in the Near ecosystem.”

Sweat Wallet’s new Learn & Earn feature is a great way for crypto-curious to tap into the world of crypto, Web3, and NEAR. With the ability to earn tokens for learning and taking quizzes, users now have more reasons to stay engaged within the Sweat Wallet app and the NEAR ecosystem. 

Disclosure: Please note that the announcement of the partnership between NEAR Foundation and Sweat Economy is for informational purposes only and does not constitute financial advice or any other professional advice. Nothing in this announcement or in any related communication should be taken as such. The partnership is intended to offer certain benefits or services to their respective customers or clients and does not provide any investment advice, recommendation, or endorsement of any financial product or service.

Any decision to invest or engage in any financial activity should be made based on personal research and professional advice obtained from a licensed financial advisor or other qualified professional.

NEAR Foundation and Sweat Economy do not assume any liability or responsibility for any investment or financial decision made by individuals or organizations based on this announcement or any related communication.

By reading this announcement, you acknowledge and agree that you will not rely on it as financial advice and will not hold NEAR Foundation or Sweat Economy liable for any losses or damages arising from any such reliance.