LiNEAR Protocol Introduces Omnichain Liquid Restaking to Advance NEAR’s Chain Abstraction
COMMUNITY
March 27, 2024
LiNEAR, the leading DeFi protocol on NEAR with the highest TVL, is planning to enhance the security of NEAR’s Chain Abstracted network through restaking, ensuring a secure future for a chain-agnostic and chain-abstracted Web3 experience. Established by early core contributors to NEAR, LiNEAR has made significant contributions to advancing the ecosystem, beginning with its innovative liquid staking features, notably the Automatic Validator Optimization Algorithm. This algorithm greatly improves the security and decentralization of the NEAR network by dynamically reallocating stakes across as many as 200 active nodes. 

LiNEAR’s vision has always been enabling easier participation in the decentralized web. With the NEAR ecosystem’s commitment to advancing Chain Abstraction by removing the complexities of blockchain technology for users, LiNEAR is also expanding its offering and focusing on restaking to eliminate barriers to entry for the multichain ecosystem. 

LiNEAR Protocol will be providing a robust security model through omnichain liquid restaking, avoiding the pitfalls of centralized and permissioned solutions in pursuit of an improved Web3 user experience. Restaking can potentially secure Chain Abstraction infrastructures for three key reasons: it offers instant security by leveraging existing blockchain security mechanisms; ensures capital efficiency by allowing nodes and stakers of a blockchain to participate with minimal additional capital; and promotes base layer alignment, closely bonding the networks with the blockchains which they serve.

NEAR‘s Chain Abstraction comprises social authentication, account aggregation, Chain Signatures, and the multichain intent relayer. These elements combine to allow users to transact across various blockchains using a single account and interface, without the need to understand the underlying infrastructure or switch networks.

To realize this vision, two new decentralized infrastructures are required: the Chain Signatures MPC network and the Multichain Gas Relayer. The Chain Signatures MPC network functions as a decentralized signer of users’ NEAR accounts, controlling all other accounts on different blockchains. The Multichain Gas Relayer consists of off-chain relayers that listen to and compete to execute users’ intents on different chains. Both infrastructures operate externally to any existing blockchain, including NEAR.

LiNEAR’s liquid restaking solution aims to secure the Chain Signatures MPC network, mitigating the risks of centralization. Similarly, the Multichain Gas Relayer would be able to operate in a trustless manner with restaked verification, removing embedded trust assumptions and enabling users to confidently delegate executions to the relayer network. This entire security framework can be supported by $NEAR and $LiNEAR, and other assets such as $SOL, $BTC, and more in the future, ensuring alignment with different blockchains connected through Chain Abstraction.

NEAR community members interested in restaking can get started on LiNEAR and help move the network towards a more secure and easy-to-use Web3 world.

About LiNEAR

LiNEAR Protocol is an innovative omnichain liquidity staking/restaking platform and the leading DeFi protocol on NEAR. It pioneered revolutionary features such as automatic validator optimization, which significantly decentralizes and secures the network by allowing users to re-delegate to 200+ validators. LiNEAR offers seamless multichain restaking across multiple networks, such as NEAR, Ethereum, Bitcoin, Solana, and more, ensuring a secure future for a chain-agnostic and chain-abstracted Web3 experience.

