Los Angeles Football Club and Dropt Rewrite Fan Experience Playbook Utilizing NEAR Protocol
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 19, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership between Los Angeles Football Club (LAFC) and Dropt — a fan engagement platform built on the NEAR Protocol — supporting the club’s vision to rewrite the playbook on the fan experience. The collaboration kicks off with LAFC Gold — a Loyalty Club designed to recognize Los Angeles FC’s most devoted fans with a wide range of unprecedented benefits.

Let’s explore what LAFC’s new fan engagement product, LAFC Gold, looks like and what it means for an open web. 

Elevating the football fan experience with LAFC Gold benefits
In the sports worlds, fans love to be part of the action, and not just at the arena. Sports teams understand that fans like to feel that they are being seen, heard, and valued for their significant contributions to the organization and its athletes. And in the world of football (“soccer” to Americans), fanbases are truly global, making it important that sports franchises meet their fans wherever they are.
With its new Loyalty Club, LAFC is acknowledging their fans and bringing them new benefits and experiences, utilizing Dropt’s digital engagement platform and NEAR technology.

“LAFC Gold promises to make LAFC fans and supporters feel seen, heard, and valued wherever they are in the world,”  said LAFC Co-President & CBO Larry Freedman. “Watching a match at BMO Stadium is one of the best sports experiences anyone can have. With LAFC Gold, we now have a way to connect, recognize, and reward anyone who supports the Black & Gold.”

LAFC Gold delivers on its promise with exclusive experiences 
LAFC Gold kicked off with a ticket giveaway to the historic matchup between LAFC and Inter Miami, including the experience of holding the American Flag during the National Anthem before the match. And with the  2022 World Cup, 4-time Champions League, and 7-time Ballon d’Or winner Lionel Messi on the pitch for Inter Miami, this was a match not to be missed. 

For the last three home matches of the season, including the momentous El Tráfico against LA Galaxy this past weekend, LAFC Gold has given away 4 premium tickets with pre-match field access to winning LAFC Gold Members. Unlocking your chance to win experiences and benefits like these for Real Salt Lake (10/1) and Minnesota United FC (10/4) is as easy as signing up and securing your LAFC Gold Membership.

With Dropt’s digital fan engagement platform, LAFC Gold will be accessible and easy for fans to join. The kickoff is just the first of what will be a dynamic program designed to create new ways for fans to engage with LAFC and its club partners. And by utilizing the NEAR Protocol, LAFC will ensure that the team will remain at the forefront of the open web’s cutting-edge technology by allowing LAFC to verify and track every transaction in a secure environment.

To experience LAFC Gold, visit gold.lafc.com and sign up for an Entry, Local, Global, or Youth Membership. 

LAFC Season Ticket Members are automatically enrolled in the program. 

