Mantle Ecosystem Gateway Launches on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S)
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 20, 2023
An ecosystem gateway for Mantle, the layer-2 scaling solution built on Ethereum, has launched on the NEAR Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S) to offer a unified point of entry into the Mantle ecosystem. 

Hosted by popular Mantle dApp FusionX, the gateway, built in collaboration with the NEAR community, streamlines the discovery of Mantle applications and helps aggregate components of top dApps including the Mantle Bridge, Agni, Ammos, iZiSwap, FusionX, Gamma, Lendle, and soon Pendle, in one place. 

The gateway offers greater accessibility for developers and users, easier discoverability for the apps they build, and powerful composability. This was all made possible thanks to the B.O.S.

“Mantle has seen some great traction since their launch and we’re very excited to have a Mantle gateway built on B.O.S. Ethereum and DeFi users interested in discovering new projects can now find lots of Mantle apps in one place, with bridging already solved so they can get started right away,” says Illia Polosukhin, co-founder of NEAR Protocol. “The Mantle gateway demonstrates the value of B.O.S gateways for other L2s and EVM projects looking to increase discoverability.” 

Unlocking the Web3 ecosystem 
Mantle’s development on NEAR is a testament to the protocol’s commitment to creating the foundations for the open web. “We are delighted to ally with NEAR in bringing leading Mantle dApps to a wider community through the Mantle Ecosystem Gateway on B.O.S,” says Arjun Kalsy, head of ecosystem of Mantle. “Through this effort, we look to provide even more support to our dev community, and allow for more cross-pollination in our respective Web3 communities.” 

The Mantle gateway joins a growing list of projects that have partnered with the B.O.S to help unlock the full potential of Web3. A zkEVM B.O.S gateway for the Polygon ecosystem launched on NEAR to help increase accessibility and discoverability for developers, while also improving the user experience for end users exploring L2 ecosystems. 

While the B.O.S is built on NEAR, it offers many benefits  to founders and builders from EVM projects and across the whole Web3 ecosystem. The Blockchain Operating System speeds up the process of building multi-chain experiences, empowering builders from any ecosystem––including EVM projects such as Ethereum layer 2s––to focus on creating great products for users rather than on managing infrastructure. 

Developers can quickly build composable apps for the open web from thousands of flexible components, as well as seamlessly onboard users and increase discoverability across Web3 since every application utilising B.O.S is visible on a common interface. This collaboration brings new capabilities to developers and lets them build apps that can quickly reach more users.

