MetaBUILD 2 Hackathon Winners
COMMUNITY
March 31, 2022
For the last three months, NEAR developers and entrepreneurs from across the globe have been hard at work on the MetaBUILD 2 hackathon. For the NEAR community,  this hybrid virtual-physical event is a hotbed of Web3 ideas, creativity, and innovation. 

Developing on NEAR’s simple, scalable, and secure blockchain, these projects are the integral building blocks laying the foundation for a better future. A future where millions of new users and developers work together to create and share completely new journeys in Web3. 

Just as the NEAR community has grown by leaps and bounds, so too has MetaBUILD.  Similar to the first hackathon, MetaBUILD 2 has a total of $1 million in prizes to give away. But this time nearly 4,000 participants joined the hackathon, submitting over 356 projects—of which, 186 were eligible—across NFTs, DeFI, Gaming, DAOs, infrastructure apps and tools, and EVM apps. 

For the NEAR MetaBUILD 2 hackathon, we had Welcome and Natives tracks, as well as 35 Sponsor Challenges.

If you’d like to get in touch with any of our winners, join our Discord channel. 

Grand Prize Winners
1st Place – Voog 
A blockchain app-builder, Voog is a super simple UI-based smart contract builder, featuring one-click deployment to NEAR and an auto-generated UI to implement contracts.

Learn more about Voog. 

2nd Place – MetaAds
A brand new decentralized online-2-offline (O2O) protocol, MetaAds aggregates Metaverse ads with Indoor and Outdoor ads in the real world.

Learn more about MetaAds.

3rd Place – NEAR Playground 
A browser-based editor, NEAR Playground empowers developers to write, compile, test, and call NEAR Rust and AssemblyScript smart contracts in the browser.

Learn more about NEAR Playground. 

Welcome Track – Best Technology Winners
The Welcome Track was for those developers who already had an app and wanted to integrate NEAR blockchain into it. The Welcome Track was also for non-blockchain developers who may have had an idea for a NEAR app but wanted to get familiar with the Web3 technology. Those hackers who wanted to be eligible for one more of the 35 sponsor prizes were encouraged to bake a challenge solution into their project. 

Below are the Welcome Track’s “Best Technology” winners. 

Rainbow Bridge Explorer
An API for exploring bridge transactions between NEAR, Aurora, and Ethereum, the Rainbow Bridge Explorer allows users to explore their bridging activities and discover trends on the Rainbow Bridge.

Learn more about Rainbow Bridge Explorer. 

MineLand
A Play-to-Earn NFT collectible game, MineLand allows players to mint mines and collect resources with advanced game logic.

Learn more about MineLand. 

NEAR Playground 
A browser-based editor, NEAR Playground empowers developers to write, compile, test, and call NEAR Rust and AssemblyScript smart contracts in the browser.

Learn more about NEAR Playground. 

Natives Track – Best Technology Winners
The Natives Track was designed for developers already familiar with NEAR, Aurora, or Octopus blockchain, or who wanted to build an ecosystembuild ecosystem and tooling apps (using blockchain data, not the technology). As with the Welcome Track, Native Track participants were eligible for one more of the 35 sponsor prizes if they tackled at least one of the challenges in their project. 

Below are the Natives Track’s “Best Technology” winners. 

Shizo
A metaverse map based on a map of the physical world, Shizo is the place where you can buy and sell digital roads and lands, as well as change their appearance.

Learn more about Shizo. 

MetaAds
A brand new decentralized online-2-offline (O2O) protocol, MetaAds aggregates Metaverse ads with Indoor and Outdoor ads in the real world.

Learn more about MetaAds.

Voog 
A blockchain app-builder, Voog is a super simple UI-based smart contract builder, featuring one-click deployment to NEAR and an auto-generated UI to implement contracts.

Learn more about Voog. 

Brave CryptoDino Challenge Winners
Jeffrey The Dinosaur’s Dinotastic Blockchain Adventure 
First place winner of the Brave CryptoDino challenge, Jeffrey the Dinosaur’s Dinotastic Blockchain Adventure allows users to log in with NEAR and equip skin NFTs from their wallets. The game mechanics are largely the same as the original, although this one’s cacti are a little bit taller. 

Learn more about Jeffrey The Dinosaur’s Dinotastic Blockchain Adventure. 

OpenSkin
Second place winner of the Brave CryptoDino challenge, OpenSkin allows players to earn “dino points” as they play, which are then added to the user’s NEAR wallet. The team also created a marketplace called OpenSkin, where artists can upload their game skins as jpegs, which are then converted into tokens that users can collect. 

Learn more about OpenSkin. 

MetaBUILD 2 Co-Organizer Track Winners
Sponsors NEAR Foundation, Aurora, Brave, and Octopus Network co-organized MetaBUILD 2. Here are the hackathon winners for this co-organizer track. 

“Calling All Liberal Artists” – Bit Civilization
A multi-chain DAO infrastructure service protocol, Bit Civilization aims to transform all aspects of human society like family, tool, language, belief, law, culture and art.

Learn more about Bit Civilization. 

“Airtable Is the New Excel” – NEAR Validators Dashboard
NEAR Validators Dashboard gives users a view of all validator details on the NEAR network.

Learn more about NEAR Validators Dashboard. 

“Build an NFT Marketplace” – Borealis
The winner of Aurora’s sponsor track, Borealis NFT marketplace facilitates the creation, buying, and selling of NFTs in an automated environment.

Learn more about Borealis. 

“Oracles” – Symm Finance
Symm, The winner of Aurora’s “Oracles” sponsor track, is a decentralized, fully on-chain exchange for perpetual futures built on NEAR’s Aurora, an Ethereum Virtual Machine.

Learn more about Symm Finance.

“ERC20-Factory” – Kahu
Kahu, the winner of Aurora’s “ERC2-Factory” sponsor track, allows non-technical blockchain users to easily mint ERC20 Tokens on Aurora, using advanced features. 

Learn more about Kahu. 

“Appchain Challenges” – SmartCV
SmartCV, winner of Octopus Network’s “Appchain Challenges” sponsor track, aims to help organizations find the right talent at low cost. It also allows employees to easily find the job positions most suitable for their talents and skills.

Learn more about SmartCV. 

The Full List of MetaBUILD 2 Winners
Curious about all of the other winning projects? Check out the full list of MetaBUILD 2 hackathon winners.