NEARCON ‘23 Day Three: Shaping the Future of Decentralized Governance
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 10, 2023
NEARCON ’23’s grand finale is here, packed with groundbreaking sessions you won’t want to miss. It’s been a great ride so far, with engaging sessions, a mind-blowing hackathon, and the chance to network in person with open web experts from all over the globe. Today’s agenda has some of the most impactful talks yet, so get ready to send NEARCON ‘23 out with a bang!

Start with a coffee at 9:00 AM and enjoy breakfast at the venue with other attendees before diving into our final day of immersive sessions. By 10:45 AM, the curtain will lift on the main stage for NEARCON 23’s final foray into Web3 — including a special, surprise announcement from NEAR CEO Illia Polosukhin.
Remember, you can stay connected throughout the day on Calimero Chat — a private, decentralized comms built on the NEAR blockchain.
*Note: There is no bag check or cloak room at any NEARCON venue. 

Can’t miss sessions on Day Three
What 2024 Looks Like for Decentralized Democracy (1:00 PM – 1:30 PM, Layer 1 Stage).

Join us for a deep dive into the future of governance on NEAR, where the visionaries behind NEAR’s political framework dissect past triumphs and unfold the master plan for 2024. Hear from our panelists, including Joe Spano of ShardDog and Blaze from Cheddar.

Special Announcement (12:00 PM – 12:30 PM, Layer 1 Stage). Don’t miss NEAR Co-founder and NEAR Foundation CEO Illia Polosukhin’s major announcement. When Illia speaks, the entire Web3 world listens, so grab a quick bite and head on over to the main stage for what’s sure to be Illia’s mic-drop moment of NEARCON ‘23.

NEAR Governance Forum (11:05 AM – 12:00 PM, Layer 2 Stage). Curious about NEAR’s decentralized governance model? Get your questions answered by Alejandro Betancourt of the Transparency Commission and Cameron Dennis of Banyan Collective, with the conversation facilitated by Gus Friis of NEARWEEK.

NEAR Campus: Unleashing the Potential of University Partnerships for DevHub (11:00 AM – 11:20 AM). NEAR DevHub’s Boris Polania will showcase the NEAR Campus’s role in revolutionizing developer engagement. Explore the relationship between NEAR and academia, and how NEAR Campus will serve as a touchpoint for global campuses in the future.

Sensational speaker highlights
Unveiling the Web3 BUILD Incubator Fellowship (11:20 AM – 11:30 AM, Block Zero Stage)

Max Mizzi from Major League Hacking will introduce the BUILD Incubator Fellowship, an innovative collaboration with NEAR Horizon. Discover the inception, operation, and success stories of the program’s trailblazing summer cohort.

It’s Honest Work: How DeFi Is Growing Up (11:30 AM – 12:00 PM, Layer 1 Stage),

From ‘DeFi Summer’ to today, decentralized finance remains one of the most promising areas of crypto — and it’s inevitably maturing. Drop by as an incredible panel included Arjun Arora from Orderly Network, Mike Cahill of Douro Labs, and more chart recent developments that are reshaping DeFi’s landscape on NEAR and beyond.

Aurora Unleashed: Igniting NEAR’s Potential (11:15 AM – 11:30 AM, Layer 1 Stage).

Alex Shevchenko of Aurora Labs takes the spotlight to discuss Aurora’s impactful innovations within the NEAR ecosystem. Expect insights into Aurora’s network developments, Borealis infrastructure, and their cross-contract call SDK, all of which amplify NEAR’s technological prowess.

IRL Hackathon grand finale and LX Factory party
Judgment day is finally here, as winners of the IRL Hackathon will claim their awards on the Main Stage from 2:35 PM – 3:50 PM. Huge thanks to all who participated and submitted projects. Every hacker, coder, builder, and developer is what makes the NEAR ecosystem special and the NEAR Foundation looks forward to engaging each and every one in the future.

Finally, NEARCON ‘23 is going out with a major bang at one of the most iconic Lisbon party venues — LX Factory. An epic bash brought to you by The Littles, it’s a going away soiree that every NEARCON ‘23 attendee simply can’t miss. Grab a drink, do some networking, and groove your night away as NEARCON ‘23 sails off into the Portuguese sunset. 

A few important reminders
Here are today’s venue hours:

Armazem (Hacker HQ) closes at 12:30 PM.
Garagem (Community HQ) closes at 5:30 immediately after the happy hour.
Convento Do Beato Layer 2 Stage closes at 12:00 PM. The Layer 1 Stage and venue closes at 4:00 PM.
Closing party at LX Factory (Fábrica) from 9:00 PM – 4:00 AM. Open to badge holders.
Shoutout to Day Three sponsors
Of course, this epic Day Three wouldn’t be possible without the support of todays’ generous and amazing sponsors:

The Littles
SailGP
Day Three will be all about forging connections, gaining insights, and celebrating all that you and the collective NEAR ecosystem has accomplished not only over the past three days – but the entirety of 2023. So grab a coffee, head on over to the venue, and let’s make the final day of NEARCON ‘23 count towards making this the most iconic edition ever.

