NEAR at We Are Developers World Congress 2023: Build with BOS in Berlin
NEAR FOUNDATION
July 25, 2023
NEAR is  gearing up for a big presence at the We Are Developers World Congress 2023. It’s an exciting opportunity to demonstrate the power of the Blockchain Operating System (BOS), fostering a wave of innovation and expanding horizons for developers in Germany, the Balkans, and beyond.

A dedicated NEAR team  will be engaging with attendees over 10,000 expected global attendees at We Are Developers. The congress will take place in the dynamic city of Berlin, Germany, on the 27th and 28th of July.

So if you’re in the area and want to explore new BOS development opportunities in-person, NEAR at the We Are Developers World Congress 2023 is a must-attend.

NEAR’s participation in the event
Kicking off on Friday, July 28, 2023, from 9:00 AM to 11:00 AM, the “Mastering BOS” workshop, hosted by senior NEAR developers Andrej Šarić and Alen Meštrov. This deep dive session aims to equip attendees with the skills and knowledge to leverage BOS development and tolling, from a smooth onboarding process to deploying their first application.

On Thursday, July 27, 2023, from 3:30 PM to 4:00 PM, Andrej Šarić will add depth to NEAR’s presence during “Exploring BOS.”  The session will delve into how BOS simplifies the application-building process, improves user onboarding, and facilitates multi-chain interactions, positioning it as an essential tool for developers and users alike.

NEAR’s BOS booth will be an interactive hub, offering engaging activities and a fun quiz. Visitors can also get their hands on cool NEAR merchandise. And Tekuno’s Devs Without Limits activation allows participants to collect PODs at three specific locations: the “Mastering BOS” workshop, the “Exploring BOS” talk, and the NEAR BOS booth.

The Tekuno collab will allow participants to collect PODs at specific locations, which unlocks a special “We Are Developers” Proof-of-Doing (POD) with a chance to win a ticket to NEARCON 2023. Successfully collecting all three PODs unlocks the “We Are Developers” POD, affirming their active participation and engagement at the congress.

The Tekuno Activation: Devs Without Limits will be happening throughout the duration of the conference, from Thursday, July 27 to July 28, 2023.

Importance of BOS and NEAR for the Developer Community
The NEAR team will spread the word and underscore how BOS is making the application-building process smoother and more accessible for developers worldwide. By participating in the “Mastering BOS” workshop and “Exploring BOS” talk, developers can explore the myriad advantages of using BOS and the NEAR Protocol. 

NEAR’s team will highlight BOS’s ability to facilitate composability, swift app creation, and its chain-agnostic capabilities, empowering developers attending the congress. NEAR’s presence at the congress aims to showcase BOS’s significant potential for expanding the NEAR ecosystem. 

By engaging with global developers at this event, NEAR aspires to foster a greater understanding of BOS, stimulate increased adoption, and consequently, amplify awareness and growth of the NEAR community.  

As NEAR gears up for We Are Developers World Congress 2023, their mission is clear —  to illuminate the immense potential of the Blockchain Operating System (BOS). The mission will be  to drive BOS  adoption, foster developer engagement, and strengthen the NEAR ecosystem.

Mark your calendars for this awesome  event, and join us in the hip and modern city of Berlin on 27th and 28th July. From engaging workshops to in-depth discussions, come on down to the We Are Developers World Congress begin Berlin BOS building.

