NEAR Now Integrated into Ledger Live For More Security and Ownership
NEAR FOUNDATION
January 30, 2023
Wallet security can be intimidating, especially for newcomers. But it just got a whole lot easier for NEAR users. NEAR Foundation is excited to announce full integration with Ledger Live, making it easier than ever for NEAR holders to secure their assets using Ledger’s devices and software. 

Ledger Live is Ledger’s all-in-one digital asset management app enabling its users to manage and stake an ever-growing range of digital assets from the security and self-custody of their hardware wallets. Through its single, secure app, anyone from newcomers to crypto natives can follow the market,manage their DeFi portfolio, and explore Web3 with complete control and freedom. 

“We are thrilled to help more people enjoy the benefits of self-custody, no matter what their level of crypto experience,” said Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “This new partnership will bring even easier and more secure access to cryptocurrency worldwide, as we remain committed to serving as the de facto entry point to Web3 – simplifying the onboarding experience for users even if they have never used crypto, tokens, keys, or wallets.”

Carl Anderson, VP B2C Engineering at Ledger, adds: “I’m pleased to see a crypto player like NEAR join the Ledger ecosystem. This integration highlights what Ledger Live really is: an all-in-one asset management app where users can manage their digital assets, visualize their NFTs, and explore an ever-growing range of Web3 apps from the security of their hardware wallets.”

How Ledger Live works
To use Ledger Live, users must have a Ledger hardware wallet and then download the desktop and/or mobile app. This all-in-one digital asset management app allows users to track, buy, sell and swap an ever-growing range of tokens, visualize NFTs, earn rewards, manage NFT collections, and securely stake their digital assets with Ledger by Figment validator while enjoying the benefits of self-custody. 

Users can delegate their NEAR tokens to the Ledger by Figment validator, contributing to the protocol’s security while benefiting from coverage against slashing risks, low commission fees, and earning rewards from that contribution. 

Visit the Ledger Live webpage for more details on using the app and staking with the Ledger by Figment validator. 

DISCLOSURE NOTICE: Investment in cryptocurrency and other digital assets is highly speculative and comes with significant risks. The value of these assets can be highly volatile and may fluctuate significantly in a short period of time. It is important to conduct thorough research and consult with a financial advisor before making any investment decisions. Additionally, it is important to understand the regulatory environment and potential legal implications of investing in cryptocurrency. This disclosure is not a recommendation to buy or sell any particular asset and is for informational purposes only.