NEAR Teams With Google Cloud to Accelerate Web3 Startups
DEVELOPERS
October 4, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new partnership between Google Cloud and NEAR Protocol. Going forward, Google Cloud will provide technical support for NEAR grant recipients. Open and developer-friendly, Google Cloud will support devs as they build and scale their Web3 projects and dApps.

If you’re developing on NEAR, this is great news—the partnership will supercharge blockchain innovations. Developers will even more easily create without limits as they build dApps and help onboard the masses into Web3. 

“We are thrilled to be collaborating with those who pioneered the Internet as we know it,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “This partnership marks a new chapter for us as we continue to offer the best support possible for the next generation of visionaries choosing to build on the NEAR protocol.”

Powering NEAR developers with Google Cloud
In the last year, NEAR has grown exponentially thanks to its super-fast, incredibly secure, and infinitely scalable protocol. There are now over 20 million accounts, 200 million transactions to date, and 300,000 to 400,000 transactions per day on the NEAR network. Building upon the momentum of NEARCON 2022, which showcased the NEAR ecosystem’s vibrancy, 800 projects are now building on the protocol. 

How will the hundreds of projects currently building on NEAR benefit from the Google Cloud partnership? 

Google Cloud provides the infrastructure for NEAR’s Remote Procedure Call (RPC) node provider to Pagoda, NEAR’s Web3 startup platform. This allows developers to deploy code quickly, securely, and seamlessly. Pagoda helps developers easily and rapidly launch dApps on NEAR through a library of pre-audited templates and auto-generated contract user interfaces.

 “We will be supporting NEAR and giving Web3 developers the most secure, reliable, and sustainable cloud infrastructure on which they can build and scale,” Carlos Arena, Director of Digital Assets at Google Cloud. “We continue to support tomorrow’s leaders in creating new products and services on blockchain-based platforms.”

For more information on how Google Cloud is working to support Web3 innovation, check out Google Cloud’s Digital Assets blog. 