NEAR in Hong Kong: Create Without Limits
COMMUNITY
March 29, 2023
NEAR is making a debut in Hong Kong as a Platinum Sponsor for the Hong Kong Web3 Festival, which will be held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre on April 12-15, 2023. This four-day event, hosted on five center stages across an area of about 9,000㎡, will see over 10,000 attendees, 300 distinguished industry speakers, about 100 Web3 projects, community partners and media partners around the world congregate to network, share, and learn through high-level content and panel discussions. 

Web3 Festival will bring together the world’s brightest minds, top Web3 projects and leading venture capital firms presenting content-rich discussions and topics centered around Web3. Hong Kong regulatory representatives will also dive into and interpret the latest digital asset regulation policies. Top industry leaders such as CZ of Binance, Illia of NEAR Protocol, Juan of Filecoin, Dr. Xiao Feng of Wanxiang and Yat Siu of Animoca Brands are all expected to speak at the Festival.

Join us on April 14th 9:30am to 12:30pm (GMT+8) at NEAR in HK Meetup — a half-day mini summit with a full schedule of keynote speeches and panels to explore topics on NEAR as a BOS, Web3 social, NFTs, DeFi and more. The summit is hosted as one of the official side stages as part of the Web3 Festival at the Convention Centre. A number of remarkable NEAR speakers will join us in Hong Kong and share their insights around NEAR’s ecosystem development. While we are finalizing the details of the event, the list of guests below are expected to speak at the summit:

Illia Polosukhin – Co-Founder of NEAR Protocol and CEO of Pagoda
Robbie Lim – Head of BD, NEAR Foundation
Louis Liu – Founder & CEO, Octopus Network
Amos Zhang – Founder of MetaWeb Ventures and Early Contributor of NEAR Protocol
Bowen Shen – Co-Founder, Proximity Labs
Kenny Qi – Founder & CEO, Sender Wallet
Cox Zhang – Founder & CEO, Connect3
Ran Yi – Co-Founder of Orderly Network
Arjun Arora – COO,  Orderly Network

Register for NEAR in HK Meetup

From April 12th – 15th, you can visit the NEAR booth during Hong Kong Web3 Festival and mingle with NEAR projects, community members, and other builders from the ecosystem.

To participate in the NEAR in HK Meetup, please register via Eventbrite and obtain a single day pass to the HK Web 3 Festival on April 14th (valued at $100 USD). The space is limited and open registration is available for the first 200 qualified registrants only. The remaining tickets will be distributed via various community giveaways and online events to our most loyal community members. 