NEAR Ecosystem @ Korea BUIDL Week 2024
COMMUNITY
March 18, 2024
MARCH 26 – APRIL 2, 2024

As the sun rises in the east, a new dawn breaks for NEAR. Fresh from ETHDenver, where we planted a firm flag in the ground to own the Chain Abstraction narrative, the NEAR Ecosystem arrives at Korea BUIDL Week 2024 riding a wave of momentum and armed with exciting updates and alpha destined to reshape the blockchain landscape.

Chain Abstraction – a groundbreaking approach that abstracts away the complexities of different blockchain architectures – was a central focus for us at ETHDenver. We captivated attendees with live demonstrations, showcasing Chain Abstraction’s potential to enable developers to build seamlessly across multiple networks without the need for custom integrations or bridges.

By boldly staking our claim on this game-changing technology, we made a powerful statement at ETHDenver, signaling our intent to lead the charge in unlocking unprecedented levels of cross-chain communication and composability.

Now, as we descend upon Korea BUIDL Week, we are poised to take Chain Abstraction to the global stage, introducing this transformative narrative and its robust, developer-friendly tooling to an international audience of innovators, entrepreneurs, and industry leaders. 

Developers, builders, researchers, and enthusiasts – join us for a week of events as we continue to push the boundaries of what’s possible.

NEAR is Everything Everywhere All at Once at Korea BUIDL Week

We’re hitting the ground running with NEAR Foundation’s second Chain Abstraction Day (apply-to-attend) in our year long series, taking place March 26, 2024 during Korea BUIDL Week. We’re doubling down and taking everyone to the moon!

Our co-founder and CEO, Illia Polosukhin, will be dropping some major alpha at BUIDL Asia 2024, sharing insights into NEAR’s vision for Chain Abstraction and how it’s poised to unlock unprecedented levels of interoperability and composability across decentralized networks.
But that’s not all – we’re bringing the heat with dedicated workshops, content, and a massive hackathon bounty prize up for grabs at ETH Seoul, challenging the brilliant minds of the blockchain world to push the boundaries of Chain Abstraction. Developers, builders, and innovators: get ready to bring your A-game and compete for this lucrative reward.

Don’t miss your shot at NEAR’s massive hackathon bounty prizes at ETHSeoul – check out the link to see what lucrative rewards await the winners. Register for the hackathon today and let your skills shine on the global stage.
And if that’s not enough, NEAR is also proud to support SheFi Summit Seoul, empowering women builders in Web3. This groundbreaking event showcases the incredible female talent in our ecosystem, with NEAR women taking the stage to share their visionary work. 

Abstractooors, you won’t want to miss the fun!