NEAR Foundation Joins Forces with Mirae Asset for the Next Leap in Web3 Finance
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 8, 2023
In a pivotal partnership for the blockchain industry, NEAR Foundation is joining forces with Mirae Asset — a subsidiary of Asia’s largest financial group Mirae Asset Global — to help bridge the gap between trad-fi and Web3. This collaborative endeavor will thrust Web3 into the spotlight in the traditional finance market in South Korea and the larger Asian region, driving innovation and growth in the sector.

With the guidance of the NEAR Korea Hub, this partnership places NEAR Foundation and Mirae Asset at the helm of the Web3 business domain. Together, they will conduct in-depth research and foster collaboration on blockchain technology, laying a robust foundation for the use of Web3 by the traditional financial industry in the region.

Simultaneously, global joint events are in the pipeline to bolster brand visibility, coupled with a planned mutual support system. This system will fortify the Web2/Web3 business network, carving out a strong pathway for the integration of these technologies.

NEAR and Mirae Asset: propelling finance into the Web3 age
NEAR is a global Layer 1 protocol with a strong emphasis on usability (NEAR Protocol). With its new Blockchain Operating System (BOS) feature FastAuth, NEAR offers a user-friendly gateway into the world of Web3, mirroring the simplicity of email login. By presenting accessible solutions through BOS, it eases the transition for traditional businesses and developers. This ease of entry into Web3 fosters an environment conducive to the growth of innovative financial services.

“Our agreement with Mirae Asset will provide a platform for us to showcase the capabilities of NEAR Protocol and its powerful Blockchain Operating System to help transform the finance industry,” Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. “We look forward to supporting this important partnership and helping to play a key role in transforming the future of Web3 finance.”

A major financial player partners with NEAR Foundation
Entering into an alliance with NEAR Foundation, Mirae Asset demonstrates its mission to transform into a top-tier global investment bank. Providing standout services in corporate finance, trading, wealth management, and private equity investments, it’s redefining the finance industry.

“We will continue to innovate and develop the foundational blockchain technology that underpins the Web3 industry,” said Ahn In-sung, Head of the Digital Division at Mirae Asset. “We will actively collaborate with exceptional blockchain communities like NEAR Protocol to incorporate the technology into our global business.”

Mirae Asset’s pursuit of innovation is embodied in the creation of the “Next Finance Initiative” (NFI). Teamed with South Korea’s key players like SK Telecom and Hana Financial Group, this partnership signals an intriguing expansion for the NEAR ecosystem. Another feature of this partnership involves NEAR Foundation joining the practical discussion body via the working group.
The NEAR Korea Hub, responsible for business expansion across Korea and other Asian regions, has been instrumental in forming this partnership. The Hub views this alliance as a significant leap showcasing NEAR Protocol’s potential in the financial industry.

“NEAR Foundation is expanding the horizons of Web3 industry by onboarding leaders in the gaming industry (Kakao Games Bora, WeMade, and Netmarble) and Mirae Asset, a pioneer in the financial industry,” said Scott Lee, General Manager, NEAR Korea Hub, commented. “NEAR Foundation will continue to expand its reach through collaborations with industry leaders to actively drive the transformation of the existing financial paradigm.”

In essence, this alliance between NEAR Foundation and Mirae Asset marks a turning point in the realm of Web3 finance, firmly rooted in the innovative and scalable infrastructure of the NEAR Protocol, NEAR Foundation, and ecosystem.