NEAR Ecosystem Kicks Up a Sandstorm at TOKEN2049 Dubai
COMMUNITY
April 4, 2024
After making waves at last year’s Singapore edition, we’re turning up the heat for TOKEN2049 in Dubai, the city that’s rapidly becoming a hotbed for Fintech and AI innovation. This year, the NEAR ecosystem is buzzing with excitement to introduce discussions on chain abstraction and spotlight some of our most dynamic projects, including Calimero, Sweat Economy, and Aurora, to the forefront of the global tech scene.

Tech, Coffee, & Bubbles!
By day, make your way to our booth to engage with the NEAR collective and the visionaries from Calimero, Sweat Economy, and Aurora. Unpack the ways we’re transforming the Web3 space with breakthroughs in chain abstraction, data availability, frameworks for building decentralized application protocols, and Blockchain as a Service (BaaS). Indulge in the flavors of traditional Arabic coffee and pick up the hottest swag.
Yet, the experience doesn’t stop at coffee.
As the enthusiastic sponsor of TOKEN2049 Dubai’s closing party, NEAR is preparing an unforgettable evening. Anticipate a gala filled with select champagne and spirits, celebrating the milestones and fellowship of the Web3 community.

Can’t-Miss Speaking Engagements

At TOKEN2049 Dubai, NEAR Protocol is diving into the conversations that are shaping the future of Web3. We’re kicking things off with a panel on “AI x Web3: Pioneering Decentralized Intelligence,” featuring NEAR’s own Illia Polosukhin alongside experts like Ahmad Shadid from io.net, Niraj Pant of Ritual, Sean Ren of Sahara, and moderated by Tarun Chitra of Gauntlet. They’ll unpack the exciting crossroads of AI and Web3 in fostering decentralized intelligence. Then, don’t miss our fireside chat, “Sweat Economy’s Billion-User Blueprint for Scaling Consumer Crypto Apps,” where Chris Donovan, COO of NEAR Foundation and Oleg Fomenko, Co-founder & CEO of  Sweat Economy open up about their ground-breaking collaboration.

Swing by our booth for a firsthand look at how NEAR is redefining norms with chain abstraction, data availability, and more—all powered by a healthy dose of caffeine.

TOKEN2049 is gearing up to be a dynamic assembly featuring the forefront of Web3 innovation, an event you won’t want to miss. For updates on our activities, side events, and speakers, please visit our Lu.ma page and the TOKEN2049 landing page!