NEAR Joins Multichain To Bring More Cross-Chain Capabilities to the Ecosystem
COMMUNITY
June 10, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce the NEAR blockchain will be integrated into the Multichain ecosystem, opening the door for thousands of tokens to interact with the NEAR ecosystem seamlessly. 

Multichain is a cross-chain router protocol on a mission to be the ultimate router for Web3. Since its inception in 2020, it has helped bridge more than $80 billion worth of assets across 52 blockchains and nearly 2,000 different currencies. In addition to token interoperability, Multichain allows messages and contract calling to take place across chain with its anyCall feature. Projects such as Hundred Finance have used this feature to create cross-chain DAOs.  

The NEAR blockchain will join other projects including Aurora, Avalanche, BNB Chain, Bitcoin, Celo, Ethereum, Oasis, Polygon, and a host of others. 

“NEAR’s mission is to help onboard a billion users into Web3,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of NEAR Foundation. “We believe the best way to do that is to create a seamless experience for users by weaving together different chains allowing users to easily and quickly connect and use other networks.”

The NEAR ecosystem already has a number of bridges to other networks. Rainbow Bridge allows assets to move between NEAR, Aurora, and Ethereum with little more than a few clicks. The Octopus Network allows appchains from Polkadot to run on NEAR’s simple, secure, and scalable blockchain. 

The addition of Multichain extends this interoperability to the broader ecosystem, giving users more choice and developers greater freedom.  

“We share a common vision with NEAR that we are going to promote and push the boundaries of the multi-chain era,” said Zhaojun, Co-Founder & CEO of Multichain. “Multichain will facilitate communication and interoperability between NEAR and other networks. Really excited to hold hands with NEAR towards the multi-chain future!”

Secure Bridge
While bridges have been in the news lately after a spate of recent hacks, Multichain is a leader when it comes to security. 

Multichain uses a non-custodial model and secure multi-party computation (MPC) to help guarantee the security of crypto assets, and has been audited by TrailOfBits, SlowMist and PeckShield. Security reports are available on the company’s github page. Multichain has also established a bug bounty scheme and security fund to incentivize valid bug reporting from communities. 

NEAR is now live on Multichain. 