NEARCON: The Ultimate Web3 Education for Only $99!
NEAR FOUNDATION
September 22, 2023
As NEAR’s flagship conference, NEARCON is the place to learn all of the latest on Web3 technologies and the open web. NEARCON 2023 will be the ultimate Web3 education — and for only $99. 

Let’s explore what you can expect from the NEARCON crash course — from recent Web3 developments in venture capital, decentralization, and AI to NEAR technologies like the Blockchain Operating System (B.O.S), and much more. 

What you’ll learn at NEARCON 2023
The Web3 ecosystem consists of several key roles and sectors, and we’re lucky to have some of the biggest names attending NEARCON. Over 4 days, you will hear from venture capital figures like Samantha Bohbot (RockawayX) and Nathalie Oestmann (Outlier Ventures) as well as accelerator leaders like Nicolai Reinbold (CV Labs). There will also be a number of entrepreneurs and founders, including Michael Casey (CoinDesk), Alexander Skidanov (NEAR Protocol), Rebecca Allen (Contented), Dave Balter (Flipside Crypto), Aurelie Boiteux (Nansen), Mitchell Amador (Immunefi), Marc Goldich (Proximity Labs), and many others. 

Featured talks, panels, and discussions will include learnings on:

Open Web — Learn how open source technologies and ideals are colliding with blockchain technologies like NEAR to create an open web where everyone can be fairly rewarded for their data, ideas, and effort. 
AI & Blockchain — Learn from the OG of AI himself, NEAR co-founder Illia Polosukhin, on how Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence are intersecting in 2023, and how they will develop in the near future. 
Decentralization — See how the NDC (NEAR Digital Collective) is helping to decentralize governance to the NEAR community. 
Regulation & Policy — Get updated on the latest Web3 regulatory developments. 
Your Web3 education doesn’t stop at NEARCON — take the next step
If you love what you learn at NEARCON, you can keep going with your NEAR and open web education. The NEAR ecosystem offers a number of resources to help you find success in Web3. 

Thanks to the NEAR Horizon team — who will be on hand at NEARCON — you can get help in your journey of building, getting funding, and networking as a Web3 builder, founder, and entrepreneur. 

See you in Lisbon!