NEAR Launches Sustainable Learn and Earn Program with Coinbase
COMMUNITY
September 1, 2022
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce a new campaign with Coinbase designed to educate people on the utility of the NEAR token. A secure platform for buying, selling, transferring, and storing digital currency, Coinbase is one of the world’s largest digital currency exchanges, fully registered and operating in over 100 countries. 

This educational series will utilize the Coinbase Earn program to educate users about NEAR through video tutorials and interactive quizzes produced by Coinbase. Learn about running smart contracts in Javascript and Rust, joining or creating a DAO with a NEAR wallet, how Nightshade sharding is powering NEAR’s incredible scalability, and more. 

Funding Learn and Earn with Staking Rewards 
What makes this campaign unique is that it will be the first of its kind to use staking rewards to fund the initiative. Coinbase will manage NEAR tokens over a period of three years, collecting staking rewards and using those rewards to sustainably help users to learn about the utility of the NEAR token and what makes NEAR the world’s leading blockchain for developers, with its low fees, high speeds, and infinite scalability.

“In an era when many crypto companies have relied on unsustainable business models to grow and scale, it was important we found a way of helping educate people about the unique features of NEAR in a sustainable way,” says Marieke Flament, CEO of the NEAR Foundation. 

Certified climate neutral by SouthPole, the leading company for voluntary carbon offsetting, sustainability is at the core of NEAR’s mission of providing a platform that is low-cost, high speed, secure, and easy to use for developers and lay users alike. 

To participate in the Earn campaign, open the Coinbase app and navigate to the “Learning Rewards” tab on the left hand menu. Once there, those logged in and eligible to earn will see the NEAR campaign. 

Integrating NEAR with Coinbase Custody
In addition to the Coinbase Earn program, the partnership will also integrate NEAR with Coinbase Custody—an independent entity offering clients access to secure institutional grade offline custody—and Coinbase Prime, an integrated solution that provides secure custody, an advanced trading platform, and additional prime services. 

“We are committed to democratizing access to the world of Web3 and giving more people the opportunity to help shape its future,” Flament says. “We are making it easier than ever for anyone to learn about the utility of the NEAR token and its ability to create a more accessible and sustainable Web3. We believe that through education, we take another step towards mass adoption.”

This partnership will allow NEAR Foundation to expand its ecosystem by tapping into the huge number of users who put their trust in Coinbase and showing them just how easy NEAR is to use and understand. 

