NEAR x CoinGecko Raffle Winner: Terms and Conditions
NEAR FOUNDATION
May 17, 2023
Introduction:
The following terms and conditions (the “Terms”) govern the use of the NEAR Foundation Raffle (the “Raffle”) provided by NEAR Foundation (“we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”). By participating in the Raffle, you (“you” or “Participant”) agree to be bound by these Terms. If you do not agree to these Terms, you may not be eligible to participate in the Raffle or receive any rewards. Note: the Raffle is in conjunction with CoinGecko’s NFT giveaway. Terms of the NFT giveaway can be found here. 

Eligibility:
The Raffle is available only to individuals who are at least 18 years old. By participating in the Raffle, you represent and warrant that you are at least 18 years old.

Participation in the Raffle:
We are excited to collaborate with CoinGecko users and allow them the opportunity to participate in the Raffle, you acknowledge and agree that any information you provide may be used by us in connection with the Raffle. To participate, users must follow these steps: 

CoinGecko users will be able to redeem a NEAR NFT Raffle ticket with 800 candies on CoinGecko’s Candy Rewards Store between Thursday, May 18, 2023, 10pm EDT / Friday, May 19, 2023, 10am MYT through Sunday, May 21, 2023, 10pm EDT / Monday, May 22, 2023, 10am MYT.
Upon Raffle ticket redemption, users will receive a unique Candy Rewards code and a link to a Sweep Widget page. Users are required to fill in their details and may complete bonus actions like following CoinGecko and NEAR’s social accounts to boost chances of winning.
20,000 winners will be randomly selected to win a NEAR NFT each on Monday, May 22, 2023, of which 1 special winner* out of the 20,000 winners will additionally score a pair of tickets to NEARCON 2023 and $5,000 USD paid out in NEAR tokens. Winners will receive an email with a Keypom link allowing them to claim the NFT and open a NEAR Wallet in the week of May 22, 2023. 
Winners will be required to hold the NFT in their NEAR wallet in order to be selected as the special winner that scores a pair of tickets to NEARCON 2023 and $5,000 USD worth of NEAR tokens.Only one winner will be selected as the special winner, of which will be notified via email and announced on the Near and CoinGecko’s social media channels on Friday, May 26, 2023.
Raffle Prize:
Selected winners will be announced and contacted via email. The Raffle prize consists of: 20,000 NFTs, 2x Tickets to NEARCON 2023 and $5,000 USD paid out in NEAR Tokens. The $5,000 amount can be used to book flights, accommodations, and as a meal stipend for NEARCON 2023. 

5. Disclaimer:

The Prize is awarded ‘as is’ and without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including without limitation any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The Raffle organizers and affiliated companies make no representations or warranties regarding the prize or its use and are not responsible for any claims arising out of or in connection with the prize or its use. Furthermore, we are not associated with any third-party companies or organizations mentioned in the raffle event (i.e. CoinGecko) or related promotional materials. The raffle event and prizes are solely sponsored and organized by us, and any reference to third-party companies or organizations is for informational purposes only. 

Limitation of Liability:
The Raffle organizers, sponsors, and affiliated companies are not responsible for any injury, loss, or damage to property or person, including death, arising out of participation in the raffle or use or misuse of the prize.

Intellectual Property:
The Service, including all content provided by the expert(s) or other participants, is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws. You may not reproduce, distribute, or create derivative works from any content provided by the Service without our prior written consent.

Modification of Terms:
We reserve the right to modify these Terms at any time without notice. Your continued use of the Service following any changes to these Terms constitutes your acceptance of the revised Terms.

Governing Law:
These Terms and your use of the Service are governed by the laws of Switzerland without regard to its conflict of laws provisions.

Dispute Resolution:
Any disputes arising out of or in connection with these Terms or the Service will be resolved through binding arbitration in accordance with the rules of the Switzerland Arbitration Association.

Entire Agreement:
These Terms constitute the entire agreement between you and us with respect to the Raffle and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements and understandings, whether written or oral.

Contact Information:
If you have any questions or comments about these Terms, please contact us at [email protected].