NEAR Digital Collective’s I-AM-HUMAN Welcomes Its First 1000 Verified Humans
NEAR FOUNDATION
June 16, 2023
NEAR Foundation is thrilled to share some inspiring news today. The I-AM-HUMAN project, a cornerstone proof-of-humanity initiative of the NEAR Digital Collective (NDC), just achieved a significant landmark of welcoming 1,000 verified community members to our growing ecosystem. 

This critical milestone underscores the NEAR Foundation and NDC’s commitment to fair and equitable digital governance and representation built on NEAR.

The impact of I-AM-HUMAN’s 1,000 verified users
What does it mean to have 1,000 verified users? Simply put, it means 1,000 verified, unique human voices; 1,000 individual perspectives; and 1,000 contributors to NEAR Foundation’s mission of democratizing the digital world. 1,000 verified community members now have the opportunity to engage in governance voting, build an on-chain reputation, drive grassroots funding, and unlock the truly transformative power of DAOs.

This active engagement is helping reshape the way key decisions are made, moving away from centralized control and towards a truly decentralized, democratic governance model. 

Distributing voting power to the people with “Soul Bound Tokens”
I-AM-HUMAN is all about fairly distributing voting power to the people. At its heart is the concept of “Soul Bound Tokens” or SBTs. These aren’t your average digital tokens —each SBT represents a real individual, flesh-and-blood human being, verified through our innovative and user-friendly proof-of-humanity identity verification process. SBTs are the digital embodiment of you, assuring that your voice counts, and making the principle of “one person, one vote” a reality in the digital realm.

Minting your SBT is easy and only requires a NEAR wallet and your (adorable) human face. And don’t worry about what you look like since the image is encrypted and never seen by anyone. In fact, you always have the right to request the deletion of your data from I-AM-HUMAN and our partner Fractal. If you haven’t yet done so, give it a shot! It only takes a minute or two and we would love to have you be part of this important initiative. 

We’ve made sure the process of getting your unique SBT, or putting a digital stamp on your individuality, is simple and accessible. With Fractal’s help, we’ve been able to keep this process secure and respectful of your privacy rights, which for the NDC, is of paramount importance. 

“With the creation of the I-AM-HUMAN protocol, NDC sets a new standard for on-chain identity verification, empowering individuals to assert their humanity securely and transparently in the digital realm,” says Jane Wang, Product Lead at NDC Governance Working Group. “The I-AM-HUMAN protocol opens up a world of opportunities, from secure voting and governance participation to fair airdrops and reputation systems. We’re thankful for our partnership with Fractal, who has made the journey smooth with their field-tested identity solutions at NEAR.”

Other NDC Initiatives on the horizon
As NEAR Foundation and the NDC celebrate this major milestone, the commitment to innovation and improvement continues. The NDC is determined to provide an ever-improving experience for users, with initiatives underway to constantly improve user experience, strengthen data privacy, and expand our availability within the NEAR ecosystem. The NDC is actively creating a partnership roadmap for other organizations to leverage our proof-of-personhood solution, helping to empower our partners to ensure equitable decision-making within their own ecosystems.

The journey to 1,000 users has been exciting, but the NDC is far from finished. Every new user brings us one step closer to NEAR’s vision of a digital world where each individual’s voice is respected, and where the democratic process isn’t just a principle, but a practice.

So, if you haven’t already, we invite you to become a part of this revolutionary journey. Mint your own SBT, join our community, and make your unique mark in shaping the future of decentralized governance.

The NDC extends its deepest gratitude to each and every one of you for taking the opportunity to unlock elections, governance, and community treasury with us. These first 1,000 users are opening the door for thousands more to come. 
For updates, follow NDC on Medium and stay connected with us on this revolutionary journey!