NEAR Community Update: March 13th, 2020
COMMUNITY
March 13, 2020
In this community update, we introduce Flux, a prediction market built on NEAR, to show how we’ll make our internal operations public and share the latest and greatest on content.

Stay Healthy!
In light of the recent global volatility, Near closed its office in San Francisco and canceled all in-person events. Until further notice, we are moving all of our interactions online.

To create community experiences we are curious to know what type of things you want to learn and talk most about. Let us know in this week’s vote, and we’ll share the results on Tuesday.

Vote Here!

Flux
Flux announced their fully redesigned app built on top of their protocol (see the announcement here: https://twitter.com/Flux_Market/status/1235958316708302849?s=20). This app allows users to onboard into Flux via the NEAR wallet in seconds and trade on a range of markets. Use cases include politics, stock-markets, private companies, sports, esports, and even insurance. All trading is done in DAI, a stable coin pegged to the US Dollar.

In addition, ARterra an eSports engagement platform announced a partnership launching tailored eSports markets on top of Flux Protocol (go check it out here: https://twitter.com/ARterra_company/status/1237078763516694529?s=20).

Peter and Jasper — the founders of Flux
Content Highlight
“Not only should it feel like a Web2 backend, it should feel truly serverless.” — Sasha

Abel’s Abstracts recorded a podcast with Sasha on NEAR and the Open Web Collective! 

Tweet preview
Web: https://anchor.fm/abelsabstracts
Apple Podcasts: https://apple.co/38B6uNf – 
Spotify: https://spoti.fi/3cPDJiS 
Join Our Public Meetings
As part of being an open community, we are beginning to make our meetings public. You can see them on this calendar. Join to listen, make suggestions and start discussions (within the scope of the meeting). 

We are starting with the following meetings: Middleware Work Group (Wasm, Runtime, RPC, etc.) and Eth Bridge Work Group.

Additionally, we invite you to join our forum discussions: https://commonwealth.im/near/.

Welcome our new team member Huxley!
How You Can Get Involved
Join the NEAR Contributor Program. If you would like to host events, create content or provide developer feedback, we would love to hear from you! To learn more about the program and ways to participate, please head over to the website.

If you’re just getting started, learn more in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol or read the official White Paper. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.