NEAR at Consensus: Get Started on the Blockchain Operating System
NEAR FOUNDATION
April 3, 2023
NEAR Foundation is excited to announce that NEAR is heading to the 2023 edition of Coindesk’s Consensus from April 26-28. 

NEAR has a massive base at this year’s Consensus, from which we will introduce devs and end users to the Blockchain Operating System. The Blockchain Operating System is an industry-first category, functioning as a common layer for browsing and discovering open web experiences with any blockchain.

Here is what to expect from NEAR at Consensus 2023. 

The Blockchain Operating System at Consensus 
If you saw NEAR’s big announcement out of ETHDenver, NEAR isn’t just a Layer 1 blockchain. It’s a Blockchain Operating System for the Open Web — your easy entry point into Web3. 

With the BOS, NEAR has built an industry first, with decentralized frontends and forkable components for developers. For end users, the BOS makes app discovery easy and social. All designed to bring billions of people into Web3, on any blockchain.

The BOS and much more will be on display at Consensus! 

The NEAR booth at Consensus 
Consensus is the world’s largest and longest-running crypto gathering, bringing together devs, VCs, founders, policymakers and many others in the Web3, blockchain, and cryptocurrency communities. NEAR will be at Consensus for three days of talks, panels, demos, parties, and more. 

The NEAR booth at Consensus will be souped-up and multi-faceted, delivering the latest tech and ecosystem updates for the Web3 community at Consensus! 

NEAR’s booth will feature 4 different components. Let’s explore them. 

BOS for Devs 
If you’re a developer, get onboarded into the Blockchain Operating System. Talk to NEAR and BOS experts. 

Get started learning how to build widgets and experiences within the BOS. Create interfaces, fork components, and much more, with NEAR experts as your guides.

BOS for End Users
If you’re an end user who loves Web3, experience how the Blockchain Operating System is revolutionizing the access to and discovery of Web3 apps and experiences. Set up an account and get access to all of the latest exciting experiences that are now live or being built on NEAR.

NEAR ecosystem members will be there to guide you throughout your Blockchain Operating System experience with demos, tutorials, and more! 

NEAR Ecosystem Showcase 
NEAR’s booth will also feature an Ecosystem Showcase component. Here you will learn about the latest game-changing announcements, and discover the apps and experiences being built on NEAR. 

NEAR Horizon Accelerator
The booth will also feature a space for NEAR Horizon, the ecosystem’s new accelerator. Meet with the Horizon team and get started on the Web3 funding and building journey. 

NEAR speakers at Consensus
Catch a number of exciting NEAR speakers and sessions at Consensus. The final list of participants and sessions is still being solidified. However, we do have some confirmed speakers to highlight. 

April 28th from 12:45pm – 1:30pm on Main Stage — Illia Polosukhin, CEO of Pagoda and Co-Founder of NEAR on “Devs Doing Something: BUIDLing in a Bear Market” panel with Sergey Nazarov, Co-Founder of Chainlink and Emin Gun Sirer, CEO of Ava Labs.

April 28th from 3pm – 3:20pm on Protocol Village Stage — Illia Polosukhin, CEO of Pagoda and Co-Founder of NEAR, and Alex Chiocchi, Chief Product Officer of Pagoda will present on the latest Blockchain Operating System insights.

April 28th from 3:20pm – 3:35pm on Protocol Village Stage — Marieke Flament, CEO of Near Foundation and Special Guest VC 

April 28th from 3:35pm – 3:45pm on Protocol Village Stage — Alex Shevchenko, CEO and Co-Founder of Aurora: Web3 Cloud Containers

April 28th from 3:45pm – 4pm on Protocol Village Stage — Web3 Media Tech Panel. Special guests TBA.

Stay updated on the complete slate of confirmed speakers at Near.org/Consensus.