P2P Validator Joins NEAR as a Node Operator
COMMUNITY
February 19, 2021
All decentralized platforms have their own disadvantages and difficulties that developers face when building decentralized applications. Ethereum scaling limitations and spiked transaction fees make operating dApps challenging, causing tangible limitations for many users.

NEAR Protocol has been in continuous design for the last few years to address the most pressing issues of blockchain application development lowering the entry barrier for end users. Successfully implemented solutions can effectively offer dApp creators high-quality toolkits improving end user experience.

NEAR’s homogeneous sharding design is specifically adapted to give developers the simplicity they need providing dynamic scalability and stabilized fees. The ultimate goal is to make building dApps simple, thus accelerating their development.

In light of the evolving nature of blockchains, P2P Validator is excited to announce the launch of NEAR node on mainnet to facilitate the development of new open financial instruments giving access to permissionless economies for the users. 

Please follow this link for a guide to staking your NEAR with P2P Validator.

Our team has extensive experience in setting up secure infrastructure for more than 15 blockchains. P2P Validator maintains high-availability nodes and provides secure staking services for the most groundbreaking projects in the blockchain space. The node infrastructure is under advanced monitoring with 24/7 technical support, backups and alerts.

About NEAR
NEAR exists to enable community-driven innovation to benefit people around the world. NEAR is a decentralized application platform that secures high value assets like money and identity with the performance necessary to make them useful for everyday people, putting the power of Open Finance and the Open Web in their hands. NEAR’s unique account model allows developers to build secure apps that consumers can actually use similarly to today’s web apps, something which requires multiple second-layer add-ons on other blockchains.

If you’re a developer, be sure to sign up for a developer program and join the conversation in NEAR Discord chat. You can also keep up to date on future releases, announcements, and event invitations by subscribing to NEAR newsletter, or following @NEARProtocol on Twitter for the latest news.

About P2P Validator
P2P Validator is a world-leading staking provider with the best industry security practices and proven expertise. At the time of publishing, more than one billion of USD value is staked with P2P Validator by over 6000 delegators across 15+ networks. We provide comprehensive due-diligence of digital assets and offer top-notch staking opportunities.