Rapping at Stanford | NEAR Update: May 31, 2019
COMMUNITY
May 31, 2019
We kicked things off this week with an epic rap session at Stanford! Last week, we were heads down smashing bugs, crushing code and shipping features. Keep your eye on our twitter – we’re planning our next hackathon – announcement coming very soon.

In other news, we’ve shipped economics to our testnet, as well as the new wallet.

?Just for fun ?


4-Leaf Cheddar AKA Lucky Money AKA 4tunate 4tune @PotatoDepaulo dropping some wisdom ahead of tonight’s crypto collectible workshop at Stanford Blockchain Club.

Get your sweet cryptocorgis here -only at NEAR ? pic.twitter.com/zVf3KjxbMK

— NEAR Protocol (@NEARProtocol) May 31, 2019

COMMUNITY AND EVENTS
If you want to see us do more in person and/or online events, just reach out on Discord: near.chat

Stanford Blockchain Club workshop
We covered how to build NFTs on our protocol. You can find the template for creating a new app here. You can find a completed version of the code and a complete version of Crypto Corgis!
Lightning talk for Decentralized Colorado
We skyped in to the Decentralized Colorado Lightning Talks night to promote our upcoming virtual dApp workshop in partnership with the Denver crypto community. If you’re in Denver, make sure you mark June 19th in your calendar.
Upcoming events

Hack.Two (TBA)
Denver DIY Crypto Collectible Web Dev Workshop
WRITING AND CONTENT
We recorded a stack of Whiteboard Series interviews with teams that had flown into New York for Consensus. More videos will be released next week so keep an eye on our YouTube.
Whiteboard with Fluence
Whiteboard with Spacemesh
We’ve released a new post on Developer Experience in Blockchain.
Max published Exploring Liveness of Avalanche
ENGINEERING HIGHLIGHTS
There were 32 PRs in our multiple repos from 5 different authors over the last couple of weeks. As always, the code is completely open source on Github.

We’ve been making steady progress on economics and our new model of sharding.

Application/Development Layer

Wallet
Initial support for app-specific keys
Send money to another account
Cleaned up UI to prepare for release
Display token amounts in dashboard and profile pages
Account recovery working cross-browser
Nearlib
Minor error message improvements
Support for viewing authorized apps from wallet and revoking access keys.
Send tokens
Near CLI
Make method calls from command line
Support setting networkId
Configure separate network IDs for starter project config environments
NEARStudio
Improve templates compatibility with CLI tools
Blockchain Layer

Stabilizing current nearcore (released and running)
Implementation of economics: charging storage rent and transaction fees.
Continuing Nightshade development: integration tests, chunk production and network.
HOW YOU CAN GET INVOLVED
Join us! If you want to work with one of the most talented teams in the world right now to solve incredibly hard problems, check out our careers page for openings. And tell your friends ?

Learn more about NEAR in The Beginner’s Guide to NEAR Protocol. Stay up to date with what we’re building by following us on Twitter for updates, joining the conversation on Discord and subscribing to our newsletter to receive updates right to your inbox.

Reminder: you can help out significantly by adding your thoughts in our 2-minute Developer Survey.

https://upscri.be/633436/