Refer-and-Earn 2022 Q2 Report
NEAR FOUNDATION
October 12, 2022
NEAR’s ever-growing and engaged community is one of the ecosystem’s greatest strengths. Remember the NEAR Foundation Grants team’s Refer-and-Earn bonus scheme? A number of NEAR community members participated in Refer-and-Earn in early 2022, resulting in grants for dozens of exciting projects currently building on the NEAR ecosystem.  

To demonstrate the power of the NEAR community, the Grants team just published its Refer-and-Earn Q2 2022 Report. Let’s take a look at the qualified projects currently building without limits that emerged from the Grants team’s Refer-and-Earn program. 

Refer-and-Earn: Q2 Qualified Projects
The NEAR ecosystem is the beneficiary of a number of your recommendations and referrals. A total of 26 quality projects emerged from Refer-and-Earn—each aligning with the NEAR Foundation’s Grants program objectives. 

In no particular order, here are the Q2 2022 qualified projects: 

Ref finance 
Roco Finance 
Lazy Learning
Noft Games 
Atocha Protocol 
Bast.gg
Omnia Defi
KwikTrust
BlockHealth 
Marnotaur
Exxaverse 
Mambo Heritage
NEAR mates 
NFT Design Work 
The Gorilla Squad
Pawn Protocol 
PureFi
Solely NFT 
Kyoto protocol 
Deepwaters
Bumper Finance 
Dojo Finance 
Loozr 
bit brawl
Blockperks
Boundless Pay
The Grants team has reached out to all Refer-and-Earn referrers. Thanks to your help and support, the Grants team is able to support innovative projects such as those listed above. 

Start referring projects to NEAR Grants today
The Grants team would like to extend an invite to those yet to participate in the Refer-and-Earn program. To get started, head over to the NEAR Grants Program Referral Initiative page. 

Please note that only projects receiving a grant directly from NEAR Foundation will be eligible for the Refer-and-Earn bonus. Only the first recorded referral will be paid out—duplicate records will not be considered. NEAR Foundation no longer supports DeFi-related projects. 

All referrals are calculated at the end of each quarter and only eligible referrals will be contacted. 

Please contact [email protected] for additional information or inquiries.

