Why NEARCON is the Must-See Global Web3 Event of 2023
NEAR FOUNDATION
November 1, 2023
Just less than a week until Lisbon rumbles as the epicenter of the NEAR ecosystem. Step into the open web at NEARCON ‘23 across three different stunning venues, with the Convento Do Beato being the main hub for things like  founder and builder talks. Rua Pereira will pop off with creative and community action, and hardcore dev building will be going down at the Hacker HQ.

Don’t miss what’s next in NEAR’s vision for an open web that’s scalable, user-friendly, and secure. NEAR has grown to over 30 million active accounts and over 1,000 projects, and NEARCON ‘23 will showcase all these ecosystem successes, along with a slate of brand new product and ecosystem announcements.

Here’s exactly why you’ll want to be in Lisbon starting on November 7th.

A track for everyone at NEARCON ‘23
This year’s edition promises to be even more iconic then the last, with diverse tracks for any open web enthusiast, along with a melting pot of cultural and social activities to spice up the nights — Portuguese style.

No matter who you are, one of these tracks is likely tailor made for your interests:

Developers: Sharpen your skills in open web technology with hands-on workshops and coding sessions. This is your chance to get a first-hand look at the newest innovations in the blockchain space.
Entrepreneurs: Listen to industry leaders as they offer game-changing insights, actionable strategies, and practical advice you need to transform your vision into the next unicorn startup.
Creatives: Explore how blockchain technology can revolutionize art, marketing, and beyond. You’ll walk away with new perspectives on how to infuse blockchain into your creative process.
Regulators: Blockchain regulations can seem like a daunting maze of laws and policies. Get the low-down on best practices, legal frameworks, and the future of blockchain regulation from experts in the field.
Hackathons, bounty rewards, and AI at the bleeding edge
If you’re a developer, fling yourself into an intense 48-hour NEARCON hackathon where you’ll get the chance to build next-level apps for NEAR and potentially see your project in the spotlight. Developers can also earn NCON tokens through bounties, redeemable for perks from food to merch. Also, don’t miss the much anticipated “AI is NEAR” track led by AI and machine learning OGs Illia Polosukhin and Alex Skidanov, exploring where AI meets the Open Web.

So whether you’re an AI head who craves the latest insights from the baddest machine learning experts or a curious founder who delights in brainstorming over a local merlot at one of the many super cool side events, NEARCON ‘23 is sure to be memorable and valuable.

With tracks tailored to suit every interest, ecosystem milestones to celebrate, and a hackathon that brings the brightest minds together, NEARCON ‘23 is the can’t miss event of the year for anyone curious, passionate (or both) about what’s next for the  open web.

So what are you waiting for? Sign up for NEARCON ’23 now to secure your spot!
And let’s not forget some special treatment is in store for Ukrainians, students in Spain and Portugal, and hackathon registrants. All of the above can head over to those pages and register for a totally free NEARCON ‘23 pass!