Zero to Hero NFT Series: Happy Holidays from DevRel!
DEVELOPERS
December 17, 2021
It’s been a great year for the NEAR ecosystem and our developer community. We’ve hosted our first MetaBUIDL hackathon, rocked the crypto-boat in Portugal with the NEARCON, enjoyed a daily dose of Q&A on our Office Hours, and had a coding rush with the NEARvember challenge.

The DevRel team is simply amazed by our dev community, and we are thankful for the support and time every developer spends building projects on NEAR. So, as a humble way to say “Thank You”, we’ve prepared an NFT tutorial series so you can go from Zero to NFT Hero before the new year knocks on your door.

If you are new to Rust and want to dive into smart contract development, this series is a great place to start, especially if you want to learn about non-fungible tokens. 

In this “NFT Zero to Hero” series, you’ll find a set of tutorials that will cover every aspect of a non-fungible token (NFT) smart contract. You’ll go from minting an NFT using a pre-deployed contract to building a fully-fledged NFT smart contract that supports every extension.

NFT tutorials
As a sneak peek, here’s a list of the NFT tutorials that will bring you from Zero to Hero in no time:

Pre-deployed contract: Get introduced to minting an NFT without the need to code, create, or deploy a smart contract.
Contract architecture: Learn the basic architecture of the NFT smart contract and you’ll compile this skeleton code with the Rust toolchain.
Minting: Flesh out the skeleton so the smart contract can mint a non-fungible token.
Upgrade a contract: Discover the process to upgrade an existing smart contract.
Enumeration: Explore different enumeration methods that can be used to return the smart contract’s states.
Core: Extend the NFT contract using the core standard, which will allow you to transfer non-fungible tokens.
Approvals: Expand the contract allowing other accounts to transfer NFTs on your behalf.
Royalty: Add the ability for non-fungible tokens to have royalties. This will allow people to get a percentage of the purchase price when an NFT is purchased.
Next steps
If you’re ready to start, jump into our Dev Docs and begin your Hero learning journey! If you already know about non-fungible tokens and smart contracts, feel free to skip and jump directly to the tutorial of your interest. 

These tutorials have been designed so you can start at any given point, so you don’t need to start from zero if you’re already a Hero. 🙂

